Anti-gravity is Google's AI coding tool
and it has gotten genuinely useful even
on the free tier. You get tab
completions, command requests, planning
mode, browser integration, and the agent
manager without paying anything. The
free tier has a weekly quota, so it is
not unlimited, but for real day-to-day
coding work, it holds up. Model
availability depends on your plan, but
even with Gemini 3.1 Pro or Gemini Flash
and decent instructions, you can move
fast. For students or anyone watching
their spending, this is actually a
pretty good starting point before
committing to another paid subscription.
But here is the thing most people run
into after a few weeks. The model itself
is not really the bottleneck. What
becomes the bottleneck is everything
around it. How does it plan before it
starts writing code? Does it enforce any
testing discipline? Does it know your
project conventions? Does it carry
anything useful between sessions or
start fresh every single time? A capable
model with no persistent structure
around it still produces inconsistent
work and that is the gap that actually
needs fixing. There is a GitHub repo
called everything clawed code that fills
exactly that gap for anti-gravity.
Despite the name, this repo now
officially supports anti-gravity cursor
open codec cli and of course clawed
code. The repo describes itself as an
agent harness performance optimization
system, which sounds complicated, but it
basically means it gives anti-gravity a
proper operating layer on top of the raw
model, skills, agents, workflows, rules,
hooks, memory persistence. It has over
80,000 stars right now, won the
anthropic hackathon, and has been
actively maintained for over 10 months
of production use on real applications.
Version 1.8 8 shipped in March 2026.
Now, before I walk through the install,
I want to address something that comes
up a lot when people hear about
combining anti-gravity with other tools.
There are workarounds out there where
people try to take their anti-gravity or
Google account credentials and use them
inside thirdparty CLI tools like Claude
Code or Open Code to access Gemini
models without a separate API key. It
sounds convenient, but Google is
explicit about this in their terms of
service. Using your anti-gravity login
with unauthorized third-party software
is a direct violation. Your account can
get flagged or terminated and you will
have wasted time on a setup that was
never supposed to work that way. If you
want Gemini models inside a third party
tool, go through Google AI Studio and
get a proper API key. That is the
legitimate path. What I am showing in
this video is using everything cloud
code inside anti-gravity itself. the way
it is actually meant to be used. So what
does this repo actually install into
anti-gravity? The structure has a few
main pieces. Skills are workflow
definitions written as markdown files.
Each skill tells the model how to
approach a specific task like how to
plan a feature properly, how to do a
code review, how to follow testdriven
development, how to handle front-end
patterns, and a lot more. The
anti-gravity installer writes these into
the aagent/skills folder inside your
project. When you start a new
conversation, anti-gravity reads the
available skill descriptions and loads
the full instructions for whatever looks
relevant to your current task. You do
not have to manually call them out every
time. There are also rules which are
always on guidelines the model reads at
session start. things like coding style
preferences, git workflow conventions,
testing requirements, performance
patterns, these go into agents/ruules.
And there are workflows, which are
heavier structured sequences for bigger
tasks like fullfeature implementation or
security review. All of this combined
means anti-gravity stops starting from a
blank slate every session and instead
has a consistent operating layer it
works from. The install itself takes
maybe 5 minutes. First you need node
installed on your machine since the
installer uses node packages. Then from
your project root you clone the repo
inside the project temporarily. So you
run git clone which gives you an
everything clawed code folder sitting
inside your project directory. Then you
go into that folder and run npm install
to pull the dependencies. Then you go
back to your project root by running cd
with two dots. Before actually running
the install, I recommend doing a dry run
first so you can see what it is going to
write. Then you run the actual install
command with the anti-gravity target
flag. The command is dot/ everythingclaw
code/install.sh
then-target anti-gravity then your
language. So TypeScript or Python or
whatever your stack is that writes the
skills rules and workflows into the
aagents folder in your project. One
thing to know is that Antiggravity's
documentation lists the current default
folder as agents with an S at the end,
but it also says it maintains backward
support for agent without the S, which
is what the ECC installer writes into.
So, if you open your project after
install and see agent folder instead of
agents, do not panic. That still works
fine. After install, close and reopen
your workspace or start a fresh
conversation in anti-gravity. From
there, it just picks things up. The
agent reads the skill descriptions at
the start of the conversation and loads
the relevant instructions when something
matches your task. You can also be
explicit about it if you want. You can
say something like, "Plan out an
authentication system for this app and
use the planning workflow or review
these changes like a senior engineer or
use the TDD workflow to add tests before
implementing this feature. Both
approaches work. Anti-gravity will often
pick the right skill on its own, but
being explicit never hurts for more
complex tasks. All right, let me show
you this working on a real project. I am
not going to demo a basic counter or a
to-do list. I am going to build a full
conbon board with multiple columns, drag
and drop cards, card creation, card
deletion, and persistent state. This is
a meaningful enough project that the
structured workflows actually show their
value. So the first thing I type in
anti-gravity is plan a conbon board app
in react with drag and drop multiple
columns card management and lot of
durian persistence. Use the planning
workflow. What comes back is not just a
list of components to create. It is a
proper implementation blueprint. It
identifies the data model first. It
defines interfaces before any
implementation. It breaks the work into
phases and marks where verification
should happen. It flags the state
management decision points. That
structured plan is genuinely different
from what you get with a raw prompt. Now
I tell it to use the TDD workflow and
start implementing. The TDD skill
requires writing failing tests before
any feature code. Watch on screen as it
creates the test files for the board's
reducer logic before touching a single
UI file. That is the workflow enforcing
test first discipline rather than
tacking tests on at the end. As the
implementation builds out, you can see
the conbon board taking shape. Multiple
columns rendered on screen. Cards that
are dragable between columns. An add
card form. Editable column headers. The
lacster tree integration so the board
state survives a page reload. The
front-end pattern skill carries specific
guidance on React component structure
and state patterns. And you can see that
reflected in how the code is organized.
Once the build is done, I run the code
review workflow. I type review these
changes using the code review skill. The
model goes through the implementation
against a structured checklist covering
quality, maintainability, and security.
It surfaces things worth changing and
explains why. This is a much more
thorough pass than asking it to just
check the code generically. There is
also a security scanning tool called
Agent Shield that is now integrated
directly into ECC. You can run npx
eccent shield scan from your terminal
and it checks your configuration files,
your hooks and your agent setup for
things like secrets accidentally
included, misconfigured permissions and
injection risks. It runs 102 static
analysis rules and has over a thousand
test cases behind it. There is even an
opus flag that runs three AI agents in a
red team and blue team and auditor
pipeline where one finds exploit chains.
One evaluates defenses and the third
synthesizes it all into a risk report.
That is useful if you ever want to know
your agent configuration is actually
secure. One more thing worth knowing
about is the continuous learning system.
As you work through sessions in
anti-gravity with ECC installed, the
system can extract patterns from how
problems got solved. These are called
instincts. Over time, related instincts
get clustered into new skills
automatically. So, the longer you use
this on a specific project, the more
that project's specific patterns get
baked into the skill layer. You can also
export instincts and share them with
teammates or import instincts someone
else has built up. That part is
genuinely useful on team projects where
you want consistent agent behavior
across everyone's setup. On the token
and quota side, since anti-gravity's
free tier has a weekly limit, it helps
to be intentional. Use fast mode for
small edits, renames, and quick fixes.
It is faster and lighter. Use planning
mode for bigger tasks like building out
a full feature or debugging something
architectural. That pairs well with the
heavier ECC workflows like the planning
skill and the code review skill. Use
Gemini Flash when you want speed on
simpler tasks and Gemini Pro when you
want better reasoning on complex ones.
And let the installed rules and skills
carry the context load so you are not
reexplaining your preferences in every
session. That last part reduces prompt
fatigue a lot and it is probably the
most practical benefit of having this
layer installed. Other tools like cloud
code, open code and cursor are also
supported by this repo. If you work
across multiple environments, the same
skill format travels across tools, but
for the setup in this video, everything
is running inside anti-gravity the way
it is meant to work. The repo is MIT
licensed, completely free, and the link
is in the description. There are also
two guides linked in the readme, a
shorthand guide for getting started, and
a long- form guide that goes deep on
memory persistence, token optimization,
and running parallel agent workflows if
you want to go further. All right, so
that's it from the video and I hope you
enjoyed it.